# EigenValue-Problem
Quadratic Eigenvalue Problems:
Quadratic Eigenvalue problems arise in damping systems where a system of masses undergo simple harmonic motion after being conditioned to a force proportional to a spring constant and acceleration and another such force proportional to a damping constant and a velocity . Solving Eigenvalue problems of degree 2 is a challenge computationally and can be resolved by linearizing the given two degree equation. After linearizing after system, we could apply the “eig” function inbuilt in MATLAB to solve our system. Another way of solving the problem is using th polyeig function built in MATLAB. The solution outputted by MATLAB is a 8x8 system, where we are only concerned with the top four rows, the bottom four rows aren’t a part of the solution for x(t). A linear combination of the e^(ƛ*t).v(t)*gamma, where ƛ and gamma range over all the eigenvalues and eigenvectors respectively. Since Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors appear in conjugate pairs, we can convert the sum of complex solutions to a sum of cosines and sines with real coefficients only. As we need to evaluate the equation the at time t=0, we can solve for the coefficients at time t=0 after we set up a matrix of real and imaginary parts of the eigenvectors multiplied to the coefficients. After setting up the matrix we can solve for the coefficients as A*c= x where x is the vector of initial values of x  and v, where x is displacement and v is the velocity. After solving for c, we can set up the equation for y(t), as a linear combination of yp where, “yp” is a particular solution. 
